Release ROS 2 simulation with O3DE (#2520)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/interactivity/robotics/deloying-simulation.md

---
linkTitle: Deploying Simulation 
title: Deploying Simulation
description: Deploying a headless test tool with O3DE.
toc: true
weight: 520
---

## Overview

Robotic simulations are often deployed as part of a CI/CD pipeline. In such scenarios, running simulations with the Editor is not recommended.

## Deploying Release Build Game Launcher

> For detailed instructions, please refer to the [Packaging and Release](docs/user-guide/packaging/) section. Deploying a robotic simulation is akin to deploying a game, but the result is exacutable that has number of ROS 2 communication channels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For detailed instructions, please refer to the [Packaging and Release](docs/user-guide/packaging/) section. Deploying a robotic simulation is akin to deploying a game, but the result is an executable that has ROS 2 communication channels.
```

- [WarehouseSample](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-extras/tree/development/Gems/WarehouseSample) Gem registered
- [RosRobotSample](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-extras/tree/development/Gems/RosRobotSample) Gem registered

Ensure that other Gems are enabled if you intend to build other project templates.

### Creating a Project

Export variables pointing to the necessary paths:
```bash
export O3DE_HOME=/home/User/github/o3de/
export O3DE_EXTRAS_HOME=/home/User/github/o3de-extras/
export PROJECT_NAME=Ros2Project
export PROJECT_PATH=`pwd`/${PROJECT_NAME}
```

Adjust the locations for the variables O3DE_HOME and O3DE_EXTRAS_HOME to match your environment.

Create a project from a template:
```bash
${O3DE_HOME}/scripts/o3de.sh create-project --project-path $PROJECT_PATH --template-path ${O3DE_EXTRAS_HOME}/Templates/Ros2ProjectTemplate -f 
```

## Toolset build

Build the toolset to process all necessary assets:
```bash
cmake -B build/linux -G "Ninja Multi-Config" -DLY_DISABLE_TEST_MODULES=ON -DCMAKE_EXPORT_COMPILE_COMMANDS=ON -DLY_STRIP_DEBUG_SYMBOLS=ON
cmake --build build/linux --config profile --target ${PROJECT_NAME} ${PROJECT_NAME}.Assets
```

> In the command above, you are instructed to build the `${PROJECT_NAME}.Assets`` target, triggering the processing of all assets during the build. 
> In larger projects, it is recommended to run the AssetProcessor directly. 
> Refer to the [Process assets](docs/user-guide/packaging/windows-release-builds/#process-assets) section to learn more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the command above, you are instructed to build the `${PROJECT_NAME}.Assets`` target, triggering the processing of all assets during the build. In larger projects, it is recommended to run the AssetProcessor directly. Refer to the [Process assets](docs/user-guide/packaging/windows-release-builds/#process-assets) section to learn more.
```

> ## Monohlitic build

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Monolithic build

```

With assets processed, you can build a monolithic build, which includes all Gems and most libraries linked statically. 
It also excludes large editor-only frameworks like Qt.
Refer to [Create a project game release layout](docs/user-guide/packaging/windows-release-builds/#create-a-project-game-release-layout) to learn more.

> To perform a monolithic build the `install`` target:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To perform a monolithic build, use the `install` target:
```

```bash
cmake -B build/linux_mono -S . -G "Ninja Multi-Config"  -DLY_MONOLITHIC_GAME=1
cmake --build build/linux_mono --target install --config release
```

In the install directory `${PROJECT_PATH}/install/bin/Linux/release/Monolithic/`, you can find a package containing all necessary binaries and archives to run your simulation in the cloud or on another computer.

```
# tree ${PROJECT_PATH}/install/bin/Linux/release/Monolithic/
.
├── Cache
│   └── linux
│       └── engine.pak
├── libVkLayer_khronos_validation.so
├── Ros2Project.GameLauncher
├── Ros2Project.ServerLauncher
├── Ros2Project.UnifiedLauncher
└── VkLayer_khronos_validation.json

```

# Headless simulation

Often simulation need to be run headless (e.g., as a part of CI/CD pipeline).
This can be achieved by disabling RHI in the GameLauncher. 

> To run healdess, start with `--rhi=null`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run headless, start with `--rhi=null`.
```
